By default, Elasticsearch indexes all data in every field and each indexed field has a dedicated, optimized data structure. 

Elasticsearch also has the ability to be schema-less, which means that documents can be indexed without explicitly specifying how to handle each of the different fields that might occur in a document.


Elasticsearch provides a simple, coherent REST API 
	managing your cluster and indexing and searching your data.	
	you can easily submit requests directly from the command line or through the Developer Console in Kibana
	
	
Search your data
	The Elasticsearch REST APIs support structured queries, full text queries, and complex queries that combine the two


node
	When you start an instance of Elasticsearch, you are starting a node. 
	An Elasticsearch cluster is a group of nodes that have the same cluster.name attribute.

shards
        Elasticsearch provides the ability to subdivide your index into multiple pieces called shards. When you create an index, you can simply define the number of shards that you want. Each shard is in itself a fully-functional and independent "index" that can be hosted on any node in the cluster.

replicas
         it is very useful and highly recommended to have a failover mechanism in case a shard/node somehow goes offline or disappears for whatever reason. To this end, Elasticsearch allows you to make one or more copies of your index’s shards into what are called replica shards, or replicas for short.


Discovery
	Discovery is the process where nodes find each other when the master is unknown, such as when a node has just started up or when the previous master has failed.
	Discovery is the process by which the cluster formation module finds other nodes with which to form a cluster.

	This process starts with a list of seed addresses from one or more seed hosts providers
seed hosts Providers
	two seed hosts providers: 
		a settings-based: 
			in elasticsearch.yml
				discovery.seed_hosts:
				   - 192.168.1.10:9300
				   - 192.168.1.11
				   - seeds.mydomain.com
			
		a file-based seed hosts provider.	
			in elasticsearch.yml
				discovery.seed_providers: file
		file at $ES_PATH_CONF/unicast_hosts.txt

unicast_host.txt example
	10.10.10.5
	10.10.10.6:9305
	10.10.10.5:10005
	# an IPv6 address
	[2001:0db8:85a3:0000:0000:8a2e:0370:7334]:9301		

	If the port number is not specified, Elasticsearch will implicitly use the first port in the port range given by transport.profiles.default.port, or by transport.port if transport.profiles.default.port is not set.


boot es
	To add a node to a cluster running on your local machine:
	Set up a new Elasticsearch instance.
Specify the name of the cluster with the cluster.name setting in elasticsearch.yml. For example, to add a node to the logging-prod cluster, add the line cluster.name: "logging-prod" to elasticsearch.yml.
Start Elasticsearch. The node automatically discovers and joins the specified cluster.
	

	To add a node to a cluster running on multiple machines
	you must also set discovery.seed_hosts so that the new node can discover the rest of its cluster.

